HOUSE BRAIN
Sealer Robot Blueprint
Refined from C2A Transmutation Chain  |  v1

Core Doctrine: 
Don't inspect every crack with a tiny brush — stress the shell, zone the risk, and coat by area.

One-Sentence Summary: 
The Sealer Robot is a mobile coating system that uses House Brain-generated vulnerability zoning — based on broad spray data, focused pressure testing, and Verification durability intelligence — to apply the right amount of protective coating to the right areas of the house shell.

1. Purpose
The Sealer Robot protects the finished house shell from water ingress and weather exposure.
Its job is not to:
Decide what the house needs structurally
Fabricate parts
Inspect every seam one by one like a human painter

Apply the right amount of protective coating to the right zones of the house, based on what the House Brain and Verification already know about vulnerability.

2. End-to-End Simple Analogy
Think of skin care.
The House Brain is the doctor reading skin test results.
Verification is the lab that already knows how this skin type behaves under harsh conditions.
The Sealer Robot is the person applying lotion.

You don't inspect every pore one by one. You mist the skin lightly to see how the whole surface reacts, press a few spots harder to confirm how weak the area is, combine that with lab knowledge about this skin type, then divide the body into zones and apply more lotion where the skin needs more.
That is the Sealer robot.

3. Final C2A Logic
The final doctrine of Sealer:
Do not inspect every seam one by one
Let the house reveal weak zones through water stress
Use broad spray for whole-surface vulnerability
Use focused pressure spray for stronger confirmation
Do not let Sealer solve material science alone
Fuse Sealer test data with Verification durability data
Do not coat the whole shell equally
Zone the shell and apply coating by average risk
Keep the robot simple; let the House Brain decide intensity

4. Constraints and Your Transmutations

Constraint 1 — The Paintbrush Problem
Problem: 
If the Sealer robot tries to inspect and treat every seam individually, it becomes too slow, too fragile, and too inspection-heavy.
Transmutation: House-Level Vulnerability Mapping
Spray water into/onto the house, let the brain pick up which areas by percentage need sealing, then prioritize those larger areas first.
Result:
No seam-by-seam inspection
System becomes: house-level vulnerability mapping → area-priority sealing

Constraint 2 — The Fake Rain Problem
Problem: 
A weak spray alone may not represent real storm conditions.
Transmutation: Two-Layer Stress Testing
The spray shows the broader picture, but we can also have the spray act like a hose in one spot. Maybe on the roof and on each side we pressure spray one spot. Combined with the spray data, that gives confidence.
Result:
Broad gentle spray for global vulnerability map
Focused harsh spray for real stress confirmation
Both layers required before zone plan is finalized

Constraint 3 — The Drenched House Problem
Problem: 
Too much testing water can blur the evidence and make the whole shell look equally wet.
Transmutation: Sequenced Testing with Dry Reset
Spray the house, then let it dry, then do the stronger spot sprays. The brain notifies when dry/reset is done.
Result:
Broad scan → dry/reset → focused stress test → combine results
Prevents test evidence from flooding itself
Sequencing is mandatory, not optional

Constraint 4 — The Biopsy Problem
Problem: 
A few spot tests alone may not represent the whole shell.
Transmutation: Spot Test Backed by Whole-Surface Behavior
The broad spray data and the singular middle pressure spray on each main face and roof are combined. The spray tells how all the skin reacts gently, the harsher point tells how that face handles stronger weather.
Result:
Spot test never stands alone
Always backed by broad whole-surface behavior data
One representative pressure point per major face + roof

Constraint 5 — The Missing Lab Problem
Problem: 
Even broad + focused real-house spray may not fully capture long-term material behavior.
Transmutation: Fuse with Verification's Durability Data
Verification already has the soil/material data and, while idle, stress-tests that same 'skin' under extreme conditions. That data should be used here too.
Result:
Sealer is no longer alone in assessing durability
House Brain fuses: real-house broad spray response + real-house focused pressure response + Verification material-family durability data
Closes most remaining uncertainty that field spray alone cannot resolve

Constraint 6 — The Overcoat Problem
Problem: 
If you know which areas are vulnerable, you still need to know how much sealant to apply.
Transmutation: Zone the Shell, Assign Coat Class
The brain uses the spray and pressure-spray data to decide maybe the roof needs thicker sealant, maybe one side needs less. Then each wall is treated as 4 squares and each square gets what it needs based on the average of the data.
Result:
Shell divided into zones: roof quadrants, wall quadrants, later edge bands
Each zone receives: light, medium, or heavy coat class
Robot executes zone instructions — it does not choose coat class itself

5. Refinements
Five gaps identified after blueprint review. Each adds doctrine, a data field, or a cross-system data path that the original blueprint left open.

Refinement 1 — The Dry Boundary Problem
Gap identified: 
The blueprint sequences broad spray → dry/reset → focused stress test, but defines 'dry enough' as an external judgment call. If the shell is retested while still holding residual moisture, the focused stress test reads artificially high ingress.
Refinement:
Before the broad spray, the Sealer Robot takes a baseline moisture reading per zone. The dry/reset phase is not a timer or a human call — it is confirmed only when all zone moisture readings return within a defined band of that pre-spray baseline. This makes the sequencing protocol self-certifying.
Result:
Pre-spray baseline moisture reading added per zone
Dry/reset confirmation gated by sensor return-to-baseline, not by timer or external call
New data field: baseline_moisture_pct added to zone record
New data field: reset_confirmed: true/false added before focused test can begin

Refinement 2 — The Gravity Bias Problem
Gap identified: 
Water flows down. A broad spray on any vertical surface will produce higher moisture ingress readings at the bottom of each wall face not because the bottom is weaker, but because the top drains into it. The current blueprint treats the moisture response map as a flat signal, but it is carrying a gravity artifact.
Refinement:
The zone scoring model applies a vertical-position correction factor. Bottom quadrants on walls are normalized against their expected drainage contribution before being scored for vulnerability. Otherwise the sealing plan will systematically over-coat wall bases and under-coat mid and upper wall zones where real material weakness may exist.
Result:
Vertical-position correction factor added to zone scoring logic
Bottom-quadrant scores normalized before zone plan assignment
Upper and mid wall zones scored on corrected signal, not raw drainage-inflated reading
House Brain zone plan generation updated to consume corrected scores

Refinement 3 — The Edge Band Gap
Gap identified: 
The blueprint defers edge bands — roof-wall transitions, window perimeter bands, door perimeter bands — to a later refinement. But these are precisely where water ingress is most likely. The flat quadrant model will miss a junction failure entirely because the junction spans two zones and neither zone average captures it.
Refinement:
Even in v1, the House Brain zone plan must include a mandatory edge band class covering roof-wall perimeter and any opening perimeters. These bands receive at minimum one coat class above the adjacent flat zone by default, regardless of spray results. The spray data can confirm they need more; it can never argue them down to less.
Result:
Edge band added as mandatory zone type in v1, not deferred
Covers: roof-wall perimeter, window perimeter bands, door perimeter bands
Default rule: edge band coat class = adjacent flat zone coat class + 1 minimum
Spray data can only increase edge band class, never decrease it below the minimum

Refinement 4 — The Recoat Baseline Problem
Gap identified: 
The maintenance/recoat mode is triggered by TTL alerts, but the robot has no way to know the current condition of the coating it is recoating over. Applying new sealant over a failed and delaminating layer does not fix the problem — it hides it from future moisture testing.
Refinement:
Before any recoat pass, the robot runs a mini broad spray test on the zones targeted for recoat and compares results to the original post-sealing baseline stored in the maintenance system. Each zone is classified as: intact-but-aging (recoat over top), degraded (heavy recoat over top), or failed (flag to House Brain — Sealer cannot fix this alone, may need mechanical intervention first). This prevents Sealer from becoming a cosmetic robot that buries structural problems.
Result:
Pre-recoat mini broad spray test added as mandatory step before any recoat pass
Three recoat zone states: intact-but-aging, degraded, failed
Failed zones escalated to House Brain — Sealer does not self-authorize coating over a failed layer
New data field: recoat_zone_state added to zone coating record
New data field: pre_recoat_ingress_delta (vs original baseline) added to zone coating record

Cross-System Refinement — Sealer Feeds Verification TTL — Cross-System Data Path
Gap identified: 
Verification generates TTL confidence from accelerated lab durability tests on material families. But the Sealer Robot is running real-world water stress tests on the finished shell. That field data is richer than any lab simulation. Currently that data path does not exist in either robot's architecture.
Refinement:
Broad spray ingress scores, focused pressure scores, and post-recoat delta readings are all fed back to Verification as real-world durability evidence. Verification uses this to update TTL confidence for specific material-family signatures — not just for this house, but for all future houses using the same material signature. Over many builds, the Sealer's field test data becomes Verification's most reliable long-term calibration input.
Result:
New output channel: Sealer → Verification (real-world durability evidence)
Data emitted: broad_spray_ingress_score, pressure_stress_score, post_recoat_delta, material_family_id, house_id
Verification updates TTL confidence for the relevant material family on receipt
TTL improvement compounds across builds — early houses inform later houses
Verification blueprint updated: new input source from Sealer field results

6. Core Mission
The Sealer Robot must:
Run or assist with broad moisture-stress testing
Confirm dry/reset via baseline moisture return before proceeding
Run or assist with focused pressure-stress testing
Receive zone-level sealing instructions from the House Brain
Apply the required coating intensity to each zone
Apply mandatory edge band treatment at all junctions and openings
Complete full-shell protection after construction
Emit Sealer field test data back to Verification for TTL calibration
Perform recoat/maintenance passes when TTL alerts require it, with pre-recoat condition check

7. Functional Role
The Sealer Robot turns:
Moisture vulnerability data
Pressure stress data
Verification durability data
House Brain zone instructions

...into actual protective coating applied to the right areas of the house shell.
It is the machine that converts water-risk intelligence into real surface protection.

8. System Architecture
8.1 Inputs
From House Brain
House ID
Surface map with vertical-position correction applied
Zone boundaries (including mandatory edge band zones)
Coat intensity per zone
Pass count / material quantity target
Maintenance/recoat instructions
From Verification
Material-family durability data
Coating-family durability data
Provisional TTL contribution
Long-term confidence signals
From Moisture / Spray Testing
Pre-spray baseline moisture per zone
Broad spray response map (gravity-corrected)
Reset-confirmed signal before focused test
Focused pressure-stress results
Moisture ingress percentages by surface/zone

8.2 Outputs
To House Brain
Coating complete / incomplete
Coverage by zone
Applied coat intensity
Recoat record with pre-recoat zone state
Updated shell protection state
To Verification
broad_spray_ingress_score per material family
pressure_stress_score per surface
post_recoat_delta vs original baseline
material_family_id and house_id for attribution
To Maintenance System
Coating version
Date applied
Zone-specific seal state
Recoat completion record

9. Mechanical / Physical Embodiment
9.1 Baseline Physical Form
Recommended baseline:
Mobile wheeled or track-mounted coating unit
Mast or spray arm with adjustable nozzle
Onboard sealant tank
Pump system
Secondary pressure-spray/water-test tank
The robot should be: stable, simple, coating-oriented, not humanoid.

9.2 Core Hardware
Application Hardware
Sealant tank
Spray nozzles
Pump with variable flow control
Adjustable spray width
Arm/mast for reach
Diagnostic Hardware
Water spray system for broad test
Pressure nozzle / hose mode for focused test
Moisture sensor array — per-zone baseline and post-spray reading
Optional local camera for coverage confirmation
Compute
Local controller
Zone-following logic
Flow-rate control
Coverage tracker
Baseline moisture comparator
Interface to House Brain and Verification

10. Software Architecture
10.1 Main Modules
Pre-spray baseline moisture recorder
Broad spray test controller
Gravity-bias correction module
Dry/reset confirmation monitor
Focused stress-test controller
Zone loader from House Brain
Edge band enforcement module
Coat-intensity controller
Surface coverage tracker
Pre-recoat condition classifier
Recoat/maintenance mode
Verification data emitter
Telemetry emitter

10.2 Sealer Doctrine
Stage 1 — Baseline Moisture Record
Before any spray, record baseline moisture per zone. This is the reset target the dry/reset phase must return to.
Stage 2 — Broad Scan
Run gentle whole-surface spray. Apply gravity-bias correction to vertical wall readings before scoring.
Stage 3 — Dry/Reset Confirmation
Monitor zone moisture. Proceed only when all zones return within the defined band of pre-spray baseline. No timer. No human call.
Stage 4 — Focused Stress Scan
Pressure-spray one representative point per roof and per major wall face. Combine with corrected broad scan data.
Stage 5 — Brain Fusion
House Brain combines: corrected broad spray map + focused stress map + Verification durability truth. Assigns zone plan including mandatory edge bands.
Stage 6 — Zone Coating Pass
Robot coats by zone. Edge bands receive at minimum one coat class above adjacent flat zone. Robot executes — House Brain assigns.
Stage 7 — Verification Feedback Emit
Sealer emits field test results to Verification: ingress scores, stress scores, material family ID, house ID. Verification updates TTL confidence.
Stage 8 — Maintenance / Recoat
When TTL or maintenance alert triggers: run mini broad spray on target zones, classify each zone state (intact-but-aging, degraded, failed), recoat intact/degraded zones, escalate failed zones to House Brain.

11. Zone Logic
11.1 Default Zoning
Each major wall face: 4 quadrants
Roof: 4 quadrants
Edge bands (mandatory in v1): roof-wall perimeter, window perimeter bands, door perimeter bands

11.2 Coat Classes
Coat classes: Light, Medium, Heavy.
The robot does not choose these itself. The House Brain assigns them. Robot executes: zone + coat class + pass count / flow rate.

11.3 Edge Band Rule
Edge band default: 
Edge bands always receive coat class = adjacent flat zone class + 1 minimum. Spray data can increase this. It can never decrease it below the minimum.

12. Commands

{
  "commands": [
    "record_baseline_moisture(zone_id)",
    "run_broad_spray_test(house_id)",
    "confirm_dry_reset(zone_id)",
    "run_focused_pressure_test(surface_id, point_id)",
    "load_zone_plan(plan_id)",
    "coat_zone(zone_id, coat_class)",
    "coat_edge_band(band_id, coat_class)",
    "set_flow_rate(rate)",
    "set_pass_count(count)",
    "emit_coverage_report(house_id)",
    "emit_verification_data(house_id)",
    "run_pre_recoat_check(zone_id)",
    "apply_recoat(zone_id, coat_class)",
    "escalate_failed_zone(zone_id, reason)",
    "return_to_base()",
    "abort_job(reason)"
  ]
}

13. Data Emitted
13.1 Spray Test Record

{
  "house_id": "house_11",
  "surface": "west_wall",
  "zone_id": "west_wall_q3",
  "test_type": "broad_spray",
  "baseline_moisture_pct": 8.1,
  "post_spray_moisture_pct": 19.4,
  "gravity_corrected": true,
  "moisture_response_score": 0.42,
  "ingress_pct": 18.4,
  "timestamp": "2026-03-09T14:00:00Z"
}

13.2 Dry/Reset Record

{
  "house_id": "house_11",
  "zone_id": "west_wall_q3",
  "baseline_moisture_pct": 8.1,
  "current_moisture_pct": 8.3,
  "reset_confirmed": true,
  "timestamp": "2026-03-09T14:15:00Z"
}

13.3 Focused Stress Record

{
  "house_id": "house_11",
  "surface": "roof",
  "point_id": "roof_mid",
  "test_type": "pressure_spray",
  "stress_response_score": 0.71,
  "localized_ingress_pct": 27.9,
  "timestamp": "2026-03-09T14:20:00Z"
}

13.4 Zone Coating Record

{
  "house_id": "house_11",
  "zone_id": "west_wall_q3",
  "zone_type": "flat_quadrant",
  "coat_class": "heavy",
  "pass_count": 3,
  "flow_rate": 1.4,
  "coverage_pct": 98.2,
  "decision": "complete",
  "timestamp": "2026-03-09T15:00:00Z"
}

13.5 Recoat Zone Record

{
  "house_id": "house_11",
  "zone_id": "west_wall_q3",
  "recoat_zone_state": "degraded",
  "pre_recoat_ingress_delta": 0.18,
  "coat_class": "heavy",
  "pass_count": 4,
  "coverage_pct": 99.1,
  "decision": "complete",
  "timestamp": "2026-04-15T10:00:00Z"
}

13.6 Verification Data Emit Record

{
  "house_id": "house_11",
  "material_family_id": "clay44_sand38_silt18_org2",
  "broad_spray_ingress_score": 0.42,
  "pressure_stress_score": 0.71,
  "post_recoat_delta": 0.18,
  "data_type": "real_world_durability_evidence",
  "timestamp": "2026-03-09T16:00:00Z"
}

14. Failure Modes
Test-Side Failures
Broad spray too weak for meaningful ingress data
Focused spray too strong or misapplied
Shell not returned to baseline moisture before focused test
Gravity correction not applied before zone scoring
Moisture map incomplete — missing zones
Coating-Side Failures
Undercoverage on flat quadrant
Edge band skipped or undercoated
Nozzle clog
Uneven flow
Tank low
Wrong coat class loaded
Overspray / wasted material
Recoat-Side Failures
Pre-recoat check skipped
Failed zone coated without escalation
Recoat applied over delaminating layer
Incorrect recoat zone state classification
System-Side Failures
Wrong zone map
Stale vulnerability map
Missing Verification durability data
Wrong maintenance trigger
Incorrect pass count/flow command
Verification data emit failed — field results not recorded

15. Success Criteria
The Sealer Robot is successful if it can:
Generate a reliable, gravity-corrected surface vulnerability picture
Confirm dry/reset via sensor baseline before focused testing
Apply coating by zone with mandatory edge band enforcement
Protect the house shell with targeted material use
Run pre-recoat condition checks and escalate failed zones
Emit field durability evidence to Verification after each build and recoat
Emit clear zone-level protection telemetry to the House Brain

16. Environment Assumptions
The Sealer Robot assumes:
The house shell is already assembled
House Brain can generate zone plans with edge band classes
Verification provides material-family durability truth
Surfaces are reachable by the robot's spray geometry
Moisture sensors can achieve per-zone resolution
Broad spray, dry/reset confirmation, and focused spray sequence can be run before final sealing
Verification has an input channel for real-world field durability data

17. Build Phases
Phase 1 — Basic Coating Unit
Build:
Mobile base
Sealant tank
Spray nozzle
Flow-rate control
Goal: coat wall areas consistently.
Phase 2 — Broad Spray Diagnostic Mode
Add:
Water spray mode
Per-zone moisture sensors
Pre-spray baseline recording
Moisture map data feed to House Brain
Goal: show broad vulnerability picture with gravity correction.
Phase 3 — Dry/Reset Confirmation + Focused Stress Mode
Add:
Sensor-based dry/reset confirmation
Pressure nozzle / localized hose mode
Representative point testing per face
Goal: self-certifying test sequence with two-layer stress data.
Phase 4 — Zone Execution with Edge Band Enforcement
Add:
Zone plan loading
Edge band mandatory zone class
Coat class execution
Pass-count logic
Goal: coat the right parts with the right intensity including all junctions.
Phase 5 — Maintenance / Recoat Mode with Condition Check
Add:
Pre-recoat mini broad spray
Recoat zone state classifier
Failed zone escalation path
Goal: prevent cosmetic recoating over structural failures.
Phase 6 — Verification Data Feed
Add:
Sealer → Verification emit channel
Field result packaging per material family
TTL calibration input to Verification library
Goal: turn Sealer field tests into system-wide durability intelligence that compounds across builds.

18. Cost Direction
Sealer should stay cheap by:
Using simple spray mechanics
Avoiding fine seam-by-seam manipulation
Relying on House Brain zoning instead of onboard high intelligence
Fusing with Verification's material truth instead of reinventing durability locally
Using per-zone moisture sensors rather than complex imaging

C2A Principle: 
Don't inspect every crack with a tiny brush — stress the shell, zone the risk, coat by area, and feed the field truth back to the system.

19. Out of Scope / Not This Robot's Job
Sealer does not:
Decide structural part roles
Fabricate blocks
Verify fabrication quality
Transport bulk materials long-distance
Place structural parts

Those belong to: House Brain, Fabricator, Verification, Logistics, and Assembly.
Sealer only says: "Given the vulnerability map and zone plan, I can protect this shell with the required coating intensity."

20. Final Blueprint Summary

The Sealer Robot is a mobile coating system that uses House Brain-generated vulnerability zoning — based on gravity-corrected broad spray data, sensor-confirmed dry/reset sequencing, focused pressure testing, and Verification durability intelligence — to apply the right amount of protective coating to the right areas of the house shell, while feeding real-world field durability data back to Verification to improve TTL confidence across all future builds.

