HOUSE BRAIN
Assembly Robot Blueprint
Refined from C2A Transmutation Chain  |  v1

Core Doctrine: 
Don't buy expensive touch — define the expected motion so clearly that deviation becomes touch.

One-Sentence Summary: 
The Assembly Robot is a constrained placement machine that uses House Brain-provided target geometry and expected insertion corridors, then treats deviation from that corridor as the touch signal needed to seat approved parts accurately without expensive human-like tactile systems.

1. Purpose
The Assembly Robot is the machine that takes a part that has already been:
requested by the House Brain
made by Fabricator
approved by Verification
delivered by Logistics
...and actually places it into the house.
Its job is not to decide what the house needs. Its job is not to judge whether the part is good.

Take the approved part to the right cell and seat it correctly — without damaging the part, the neighboring parts, or the house geometry.

2. End-to-End Simple Analogy
Think of plugging a USB cable into a port in the dark.
The House Brain is the person telling you: "plug it into this exact port."
Logistics brings you the USB cable.
Verification already confirmed the cable is the right one.
The Assembly Robot is your hand doing the insertion.
The hard part is not finding the desk. The hard part is the last inch:
Maybe the angle is a little off
Maybe the plug catches
Maybe it stops too early
Maybe if you force it, you bend something

The transmutation: 
The robot does not need expensive human fingertips if it already knows the expected insertion corridor, including depth. If the part should move smoothly from Z=10 to Z=0 and it slows, twists, or resists early — that deviation itself becomes the touch signal.

3. Final C2A Logic
The final doctrine of Assembly:
Do not rely on human-like dexterity
Do not rely on expensive fingertip touch systems
Let the House Brain define the target cell and insertion corridor
Use coordinate-addressed navigation to get to the cell
Use depth-aware insertion to detect tension
Treat kinematic deviation as the touch signal
Micro-adjust until the expected path resumes
Escalate when insertion falls outside acceptable recovery limits

4. Constraints and Your Transmutations

Constraint 1 — The Needle-in-a-Hole Problem
Problem: 
The robot can get to the right place, but actually seating the part is much harder than navigation.
Simple analogy: 
You brought the Lego to the correct spot, but it still may not slide in.
Transmutation: Coordinate + Insertion Logic, Not Fingers
Don't solve this with human-style fingers. Solve it with a smarter coordinate/insertion logic.
Result:
Navigation to target cell
Insertion into target corridor
Correction from measured deviation

Constraint 2 — The Vision Cost Problem
Problem: 
If the robot must "see" the whole house like a human, cost and complexity explode.
Transmutation: Address Logic, Not Vision
We don't use vision, we use address logic. The house is a grid. The brain simply says square 3x9, 3x10 need this. No vision required.
Result:
House Brain knows which cells are empty/filled
Robot receives discrete target coordinates
UWB/grid positioning gets robot to the cell
The house becomes a coordinate-addressed build space

Constraint 3 — The Numb Fingers Problem
Problem: 
The robot reaches the correct coordinate but still cannot feel whether the part is landing correctly.
Transmutation: Depth Becomes the Feeling
The same mechanism is applied to depth. The grid is not only horizontal, but depth-wise too — thus it can feel tension by measuring how the block goes in.
Result:
Expected insertion path is known
Expected Z travel is known
Any slowdown, resistance, or path deviation becomes the force/touch proxy
No fingertip sensors required — this is the core Assembly breakthrough

Constraint 4 — The Blind Push Problem
Problem: 
If the robot keeps pushing after deviation begins, it may crack the part or damage the surrounding structure.
Transmutation: Deviation Triggers Stop, Not Force
If the path through depth is wrong, the robot knows it is wrong because the insertion through Z is no longer matching the expected path.
Result:
Stop on deviation
Micro-adjust
Retry
Only continue when descent resumes cleanly
System becomes: expected corridor → deviation detected → micro-adjust → resume

Constraint 5 — The Expensive Touch Problem
Problem: 
Giving every robot full fancy tactile sensing would destroy the low-cost goal.
Transmutation: Motion Deviation Is Touch
The same mechanism applied to depth replaces that. The house/brain tells it what should happen, and when the block doesn't go through that path correctly, that itself is the tension signal.
Result:
Motion deviation acts as touch
Depth deviation acts as touch
Motor effort / impedance proxy acts as touch
Insertion-rate mismatch acts as touch
No costly fingertip skins required

5. Core Mission
The Assembly Robot must:
Receive approved part identity and target cell from House Brain
Move the part to the target insertion zone
Align the part with the expected insertion corridor
Begin insertion
Detect deviation from the expected depth/kinematic path
Apply small corrective motions
Seat the part successfully
Confirm successful seating to the House Brain
Escalate repeated failure when needed

6. Functional Role
Assembly is the robot that turns:
Requested part
Approved part
Target cell
Expected insertion path

...into real physical placement in the house.
It is the conversion point where digital certainty meets physical contact.

7. Mechanical Architecture
7.1 Baseline Physical Form
The cheapest viable form is not humanoid.
Recommended baseline:
Fixed-rail gantry or constrained linear frame for major placement
Or a simple articulated placement arm mounted on a stable base
Part gripper/end-effector designed around known part geometry
Emphasis on constrained work envelope, not general-purpose mobility

Key principle: 
Remove as many unnecessary degrees of freedom as possible.

7.2 Suggested Embodiment by Task Type
For Larger Structural Panels / Blocks
Gantry-style placement system
XYZ travel
Simple controlled rotation only if needed
Stable support structure
For Smaller Precise Insertions
Simple manipulator/cobot-like arm
Known insertion geometry
End-effector with limited rotational compliance
Final Design Intent
The Assembly Robot should be: stable, constrained, repeatable, narrow in role.
Not: humanoid, all-purpose, hand-like.

7.3 End Effector
The end effector should be shaped for the part family.
Possible features:
Clamp/grip around known block geometry
Passive alignment features
Limited compliance
Rotational adjustment within small bounds
Release confirmation sensing
The gripper should not be universal if avoidable. It should be optimized for the approved part family.

8. Sensor Stack
8.1 Required Sensors
Positioning / Motion
Encoder-based joint/axis position
UWB or site coordinate system alignment
Depth tracking
IMU if needed for stability
End-effector position sensing
Insertion Truth
Motor current / impedance estimate
Descent speed
Path deviation
Micro-rotation deviation
Seating completion sensor or final depth confirmation
Optional
Simple local camera for coarse pre-alignment
Proximity sensing near slot entrance
Force/torque sensor if economically justified
The doctrine does not require high-end tactile fingertips.

8.2 Minimum Sensed Outputs at Each Placement Attempt
Target cell ID
Requested part ID
Part orientation
Actual insertion path
Expected insertion path
Depth reached
Deviation score
Motor effort / impedance
Retry count
Final seat confirmation
Failure/escalation cause

9. Software Architecture
9.1 Main Modules
Target-cell loader from House Brain
Approved-part receiver
Pre-insertion alignment module
Expected corridor generator
Insertion controller
Deviation detector
Micro-adjustment module
Retry policy engine
Escalation engine
Placement success emitter

9.2 Assembly Doctrine
Stage 1 — Receive Truth
The robot receives: which part, where it goes, and what insertion path is expected.
Stage 2 — Pre-Align
Bring the part into approximate orientation and entry condition.
Stage 3 — Insert
Start controlled descent/entry through the expected corridor.
Stage 4 — Detect Deviation
If the part slows unexpectedly, stops early, rotates unexpectedly, draws too much effort, or deviates from the expected path — the robot treats that as touch/force information.
Stage 5 — Micro-Adjust
Apply limited corrections:
Slight rotation
Slight lateral shift
Slight depth retreat/retry
Stage 6 — Seat or Escalate
If the path resumes cleanly and final depth is achieved: approve seating.
If retries exceed limit: escalate to House Brain / Verification / Fabricator.

10. The Core Assembly Insight

Touch without fingertips
Assembly does not need full human touch. It only needs a known target geometry, a known insertion corridor, and the ability to detect when reality differs from that corridor.

expected motion
vs
actual motion
That difference is the physical truth.

11. Requested Inputs from House Brain
The House Brain must provide:
Part ID
Target cell coordinates
Allowed orientation(s)
Expected insertion direction
Expected depth range
Allowed seating tolerance
Max retries
Escalation route if failure persists

Critical: 
The House Brain defines the role and placement context first. Assembly never assumes — it only executes against what the Brain has defined.

12. Commands

{
  "commands": [
    "receive_part(part_id)",
    "load_target_cell(cell_id)",
    "load_insertion_profile(profile_id)",
    "move_to_pre_align(position_id)",
    "align_part()",
    "begin_insertion()",
    "micro_adjust(delta_pose)",
    "retry_insertion()",
    "confirm_seat()",
    "release_part()",
    "escalate_failure(reason)",
    "emit_placement_report(part_id)"
  ]
}

13. Data Emitted
13.1 Placement Record

{
  "part_id": "panel_44",
  "requested_role": "exterior_wall_panel",
  "target_cell": "x3_y9_z0",
  "expected_depth_mm": 220,
  "actual_depth_mm": 220,
  "orientation_ok": true,
  "impedance_score": 0.91,
  "deviation_score": 0.07,
  "retry_count": 1,
  "decision": "seated",
  "timestamp": "2026-03-09T12:40:00Z"
}

13.2 Failed Placement Record

{
  "part_id": "panel_45",
  "target_cell": "x3_y10_z0",
  "expected_depth_mm": 220,
  "actual_depth_mm": 147,
  "orientation_ok": false,
  "impedance_score": 0.42,
  "deviation_score": 0.44,
  "retry_count": 3,
  "decision": "escalate",
  "failure_reason": "persistent insertion misalignment"
}

14. Retry and Escalation Logic
Assembly should not retry forever. Suggested policy:
1st deviation → micro-adjust and continue
Repeated deviation → retract slightly and retry
Repeated retry failure → escalate
Escalation targets may include:
House Brain — for reassignment or alternate instruction
Verification — if the part may not match spec
Fabricator — if geometry/tolerance drift is suspected
This prevents Assembly from becoming a brute-force pusher.

15. Failure Modes
Geometry / Insertion Failures
Part rotated slightly
Slot partially obstructed
Target cell tolerance mismatch
Neighboring part drifted
Seat path not clean
Part-Side Failures
Fabricated dimensions slightly off
Warped part
Damaged part edge
Mass distribution off
Robot-Side Failures
Gripper slip
Axis drift
Actuator overforce
Failed release
Insufficient micro-adjust range
System-Side Failures
Wrong insertion profile loaded
Wrong target cell
Stale House Brain state
Verification mismatch not caught upstream

16. Success Criteria
Assembly is successful if it can:
Place approved parts into correct target cells
Detect insertion trouble without expensive fingertip systems
Recover from minor misalignments through micro-adjustment
Avoid damaging the part or surrounding structure
Escalate persistent problems rather than forcing insertion
Emit reliable placement telemetry back to the House Brain

17. Environment Assumptions
Assembly assumes:
House Brain knows the target cell and required insertion profile
Verification approved the part already
Logistics delivered the correct part
Fabrication tolerances are bounded
The local build cell is reachable within the robot's constrained work envelope
Insertion geometry is designed to be robot-friendly, not hostile

18. Build Phases
Phase 1 — Static Insertion Bench
Build:
Fixed insertion frame
One part family
One slot geometry
Controlled descent
Deviation logging
Goal: prove that expected-path-vs-actual-path can act as touch.
Phase 2 — Micro-Adjustment Loop
Add:
Slight rotation correction
Lateral correction
Retry logic
Goal: prove blind insertion recovery without tactile fingertips.
Phase 3 — House Brain Integration
Connect:
Target cell loading
Insertion profile loading
Placement reporting
Goal: make Assembly part of the digital twin loop.
Phase 4 — Multi-Part Family Support
Add:
Multiple approved part types
Role-specific insertion profiles
Broader placement conditions
Goal: generalize without losing constrained simplicity.

19. Cost Direction
Assembly must stay cheaper by:
Avoiding humanoid form
Avoiding unnecessary degrees of freedom
Avoiding full human-like tactile systems
Relying on constrained geometry and insertion logic
Letting the House Brain carry more of the intelligence

C2A Principle: 
Don't buy expensive touch — define the expected motion so clearly that deviation becomes touch.

20. Out of Scope / Not This Robot's Job
Assembly does not:
Decide what part is needed
Certify the part's process quality
Fabricate the part
Transport the part long-distance
Compute the house design

Those belong to: House Brain, Verification, Fabricator, and Logistics.
Assembly only says: "Given this approved part and this target cell, I can or cannot seat it correctly."

21. Final Blueprint Summary

The Assembly Robot is a constrained placement machine that uses House Brain-provided target geometry and expected insertion corridors, then treats deviation from that corridor as the touch signal needed to seat approved parts accurately without expensive human-like tactile systems.

